# JS Core

### \* Primitive values
JavaScript has 7 primitive data types:

1. null
2. undefined
3. boolean
4. number
5. string
6. symbol – available only from ES2015
7. BigInt – available from ES2020

And one complex Data Type - object.

### \* Are primitive values/objects mutable or immutable?
All primitives are immutable, i.e., they cannot be altered. It is important not to
confuse a primitive itself with a variable assigned a primitive value.
The variable may be reassigned a new value, but the existing value can not be changed
in the ways that objects, arrays, and functions can be altered.

### \* How does coercion work? Describe how it compares the following: 3 > 2 > 1
Type **Coercion** refers to the process of automatic or implicit conversion of values
from one data type to another. This includes conversion from Number to String,
String to Number, Boolean to Number etc. when different types of operators are
applied to the values. Constructors of a data type can be used to convert any
value to that datatype, like the Number(), String() or Boolean() constructor.

`3 > 2 > 1`

`3 > 2` - true

`true > 1` - false, because `Number(true)` - 1, and `1 > 1` - false

### \* Can we delete (using delete operator) any property declared with var/let/const from the global scope or from a function's scope?
No. The JavaScript delete operator removes a property from an object;
if no more references to the same property are held, it is eventually released automatically.

### \* Iterating over arrays
- for loop
- for of (Array, String, Map, Set, arguments)
- while loop
- forEach method
- every method
- map
- filter
- reduce
- some

### \* Iterating over objects
#### Using a for...in loop
This method works in all modern and old browsers including Internet Explorer 6 and higher.
One problem in using the `for...in` method is that it loops through the properties
in the prototype chain as well. Since the objects in JavaScript can inherit properties
from their prototypes, the for...in statement will loop through those properties as well.

To avoid this problem, you have to explicitly check if the property belongs to
the object by using the hasOwnProperty() method:
```typescript
for (const key in user) {
    if (user.hasOwnProperty(key)) {
        console.log(`${key}: ${user[key]}`);
    }
}
```
To overcome this hassle, later in ES8, two other methods were added, Object.entries() and Object.values().
#### Object.keys method
Before ES6, the only way to loop through an object was through using the for...in loop.
The Object.keys() method was introduced in ES6 to make it easier to loop over objects.

It takes the object that you want to loop over as an argument and returns an
array containing all properties names (or keys).
```typescript
const keys = Object.keys(courses);
keys.forEach((key, index) => {
  console.log(`${key}: ${courses[key]}`);
});
```
#### Object.values method
The Object.values() method was introduced in ES8 and it works opposite to that of Object.key().
It returns the values of all properties in the object as an array.
You can then loop through the values array by using any of the array looping methods.
```typescript
Object.values(animals).forEach(val => console.log(val));
```
#### Object.entries method
The Object.entries(), another ES8 method can be used for traversing an array.
Object.entries() outputs an array of arrays, with each inner array having two elements.
The first element being the property and the second element is the value.
```typescript
// `for...of` loop
for (const [key, value] of Object.entries(animals)) {
    console.log(`${key}: ${value}`);
}

// `forEach()` method
Object.entries(animals).forEach(([key, value]) => {
    console.log(`${key}: ${value}`)
});
```

### \* for of vs for in
- `for in` loops over enumerable property names of an object (old, do not use).
- `for of` (new in ES6) does use an object-specific iterator (`[Symbol.iterator]`)
and loops over the values generated by that.

The most common application of for...of is iteration over the items of an array.
The cycle does it nicely and shortly, without the need of additional variables to keep an index.
```typescript
var arr = [3, 5, 7];
arr.foo = "hello";
    
for (var i in arr) {
  console.log(i); // logs "0", "1", "2", "foo"
}

for (var i of arr) {
  console.log(i); // logs "3", "5", "7"
  // it doesn't log "3", "5", "7", "hello"
}
```

### \* Functions
A function is a block of code that performs a specific task.

In JavaScript, functions are first-class objects, because they can have properties and
methods just like any other object. What distinguishes them from other objects is that
functions can be called. In brief, they are `Function` objects.

####  Function Declaration/Statement vs Expression
```typescript
function bar(a, b) {return a * b} // Function Declaration
var exp = function (a, b) {return a * b} // Function Expression
```
The main difference between a function expression and a function declaration is the function name,
which can be omitted in function expressions to create anonymous functions.
- Function declarations load before any code is executed while Function expressions
load only when the interpreter reaches that line of code.
- Similar to the var statement, function declarations are hoisted to the top of other code.
Function expressions aren’t hoisted, which allows them to retain a copy of the
local variables from the scope where they were defined.

### \* Precedence (operators priority)
Operator precedence determines how operators are parsed concerning each other.
Operators with higher precedence become the operands of operators with lower precedence.
```typescript
console.log(3 + 4 * 5); // 3 + 20
// expected output: 23
console.log(4 * 3 ** 2); // 4 * 9
// expected output: 36
let a;
let b;
console.log(a = b = 5);
// expected output: 5
```

### \** let
A variable is a “named storage” for data.

### \** const
Cannot be reassigned. An attempt to do so would cause an error.

### \** class
In object-oriented programming, a class is an extensible program-code-template for
creating objects, providing initial values for state (member variables) and implementations
of behavior (member functions or methods).

In JavaScript, a class is a kind of function.
```typescript
class User {
  constructor(name) { this.name = name; }
  sayHi() { alert(this.name); }
}

// proof: User is a function
alert(typeof User); // function
```
What class User {...} construct really does is:
1. Creates a function named User, that becomes the result of the class declaration.
   The function code is taken from the constructor method (assumed empty if we don’t write such method).
2. Stores class methods, such as sayHi, in User.prototype.
After new User object is created, when we call its method, it’s taken from the prototype.

#### Class is not just a syntactic sugar
Sometimes people say that class is a “syntactic sugar”, because we could actually declare
the same thing without using the class keyword at all, like with `function`.
1. First, a function created by class is labelled by a special internal property `[[IsClassConstructor]]`: `true`.
So it’s not entirely the same as creating it manually. The language checks for that property in a variety of places.
For example, unlike a regular function, it must be called with `new`
2. Class methods are non-enumerable. A class definition sets enumerable flag to `false`
for all methods in the `prototype`.
That’s good, because if we `for..in` over an object, we usually don’t want its class methods.
3. Classes always use strict. All code inside the class construct is automatically in strict mode.
Besides, `class` syntax brings many other features that we’ll explore later.

#### Prototype
`__proto__` is the actual object that is used in the lookup chain to resolve methods, etc.
`prototype` is the object that is used to build `__proto__` when you create an object with `new`
```typescript
( new Foo ).__proto__ === Foo.prototype
( new Foo ).prototype === undefined
```

### \** Arrow function
Arrow functions can be used in the same way as Function Expressions.
- Arrow functions do not have this. If this is accessed, it is taken from the outside.
- Not having this naturally means another limitation: arrow functions can’t be
used as constructors. They can’t be called with new.
- `.bind(this)` creates a “bound version” of the function. The arrow => does not create any binding.
- Arrow functions also have no arguments variable.
- They also don’t have `super`

### \** Spread operator
Spread syntax (...) allows an iterable such as an array expression or string to be expanded
in places where zero or more arguments (for function calls) or elements (for array literals)
are expected, or an object expression to be expanded in places where zero or more key-value
pairs (for object literals) are expected.

**Rest** syntax looks exactly like **spread** syntax. In a way, rest syntax is the opposite of
spread syntax. **Spread** syntax **expands** an array into its elements, while **rest** syntax
**collects** multiple elements and "condenses" them into a single element.
```typescript
myFunction(...iterableObj); // pass all elements of iterableObj as arguments to function myFunction
[...iterableObj, '4', 'five', 6]; // combine two arrays by inserting all elements from iterableObj
let objClone = { ...obj }; // pass all key:value pairs from an object
```

### \** [Rest operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/rest_parameters)
The rest parameter syntax allows a function to accept an indefinite number of arguments as an array,
providing a way to represent variadic functions (which accepts a variable number of arguments) in JavaScript.
Should be used instead of `arguments` Array-like object (not all methods are available), that is accessible inside functions
that contains the values of the arguments passed to that function.
```typescript
function f(a, b, ...theArgs) {
  // ...
}
```
A function definition's last parameter can be prefixed with `...`, which will cause all
remaining (user supplied) parameters to be placed within a standard JavaScript array.
Only the last parameter in a function definition can be a rest parameter.

### \** [Destructuring assignment](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment)
The destructuring assignment syntax is a JavaScript expression that makes it possible
to unpack values from arrays, or properties from objects, into distinct variables.
```typescript
// With default value and ignoring value
const [x = 3, , y, ...restArr] = [10, 20, 30, 40, 50];
console.log(x); // 10
console.log(y); // 30
console.log(rest); // [40, 50]

const { a, b } = { a: 10, b: 20 };
console.log(a); // 10
console.log(b); // 20

// Stage 4(finished) proposal
const {c, d, ...restObj} = {a: 10, b: 20, c: 30, d: 40};
console.log(c); // 10
console.log(d); // 20
console.log(rest); // {c: 30, d: 40}
```

### \** Template literals (String templates)
Template literals are literals delimited with backtick (`) characters,
allowing for multi-line strings, for string interpolation with embedded expressions,
and for special constructs called tagged templates.
```typescript
// Untagged, these create strings:
`string text`
`string text ${expression} string text`

// Tagged, this calls the function "tagFunction" with the template as the
// first argument and substitution values as subsequent arguments:
function tagFunction(strings, personExp, ageExp) {
  let str0 = strings[0]; // "That "
  let str1 = strings[1]; // " is a "
  let str2 = strings[2]; // "."
  // We can even return a string built using a template literal
  return `${str0}${personExp}${str1}${ageStr}${ageExp}`;
}
tagFunction`That ${ person } is a ${ age }.`
// That Mike is a 18.
```

### \** nullish coalescing
nullish coalescing operator `??` uses the right value if left is `null` or `undefined`.

### \** OR coalescing
The OR operator `||` uses the right value if left is falsy.

### \** Optional chaining
The optional chaining operator `?.` enables you to read the value of a property located deep
within a chain of connected objects without having to check that each reference in the chain is valid.
Instead of causing an error if a reference is nullish (`null` or `undefined`),
the expression short-circuits with a return value of `undefined`.
When used with function calls, it returns `undefined` if the given function does not exist.
```typescript
object?.someNonExistentMethod?.()
```

### \*** nullish coalescing vs OR coalescing
OR operator `||` can be problematic if your left value might contain `""` or `0` or `false`
(because these are falsy values).

### \*** [Generators](https://javascript.info/generators)
Regular functions return only one, single value (or nothing).

Generators can return (“yield”) multiple values, one after another, on-demand.
They work great with iterables, allowing to create data streams with ease.

When such function is called, it does not run its code.
Instead, it returns a special object, called “**generator object**”, to manage the execution.

The main method of a generator is `next()`. When called, it runs the execution until the nearest
`yield <value>` statement (`value` can be omitted, then it’s `undefined`).
Then the function execution pauses, and the yielded `value` is returned to the outer code.

The result of next() is always an object with two properties:
- `value`: the yielded value.
- `done`: `true` if the function code has finished, otherwise `false`.

### \*** Iterators

### \*** Proxy
It can wrap any kind of object, including classes and functions.

### \*** Tagged templates

### \*** Converting an object to a primitive value (valueof/symbol.ToPrimitive)

### \**** Reflection API

### \**** Create decorators using the reflection

